Type of Research question: early

Research Question: What are the challenges that can be faced during Prediction analysis in data mining using machine learning algorithms and how those can be overcome?

PICO elements:
=============

Context:
       A common misconception is that predictive analytics and machine learning are the same thing. This is not the case. At its core, predictive analysis encompasses a variety of statistical techniques.These outcomes might be behaviours a customer is likely to exhibit of possible change in market, for example Predictive analysis help us to understand possible future occurrences by analysing the past. Machine Learning on other hand is a subfield of computer science which evolved from the study of pattern recognition and explores the notion that algorithms can learn from and make predictions on data and as they begin to become more intelligent. These algorithms can overcome program instructions to make highly accurate, data-driven decisions. By combining both predictive analysis and machine learning in data mining we can achieve good outcomes.  

Problem or Population:
                     Various machine learning algorithms are not clear to the developers for which the use of online platforms for performing various activities involves the usage of prediction analysis. The customer behaviour is often not clear to the companies and the purchase habits are unpredictable. The prime issues that are related to data mining include access to inaccurate values, inappropriate representation of data, or conflicts in data gathered from different sources.  The prime issue that is faced by machine learning algorithms lacks the understanding of which techniques need automation. Machine learning is sometimes not able to provide the necessary infrastructure. The issues related to machine learning and data mining need an explanation for which the evaluation is needed.

Intervention:
       The known attributes are considered for evaluation. The prediction utilises the previous data to predict the upcoming events. The current data is used to determine the significant trends that will be taking place. The predictive model will help to predict the steps that can be adapted to optimise the results gained. The different algorithms are compared to identify the best one to develop prediction analysis in data mining.

Comparison:
       Linear regression allows the prediction of the continuous dependent variable utilising the independent set off variables. On the other hand, Logistic Regression predicts the categorical and dependent variable among the set of independent variables. The time complexity of linear regression is the lowest as compared to the other algorithms of machine learning. The linear regression allows comprehensive knowledge of the statistical data and interprets the same easily.

Outcomes:
       Linear regression is the best technique that can be utilised for the development of prediction analysis in data mining. The machine learning language will be helpful to predict various future trends and also allows better adaptation of the decision-making process. The implementation of prediction analysis in data mining using machine learning algorithms will be beneficial to detect any type of fraud or cyber-attack in the company fast and also immediately provide the mitigation techniques to minimise the damages caused. Prediction analysis in data mining will also help the companies to increase the capital by the increase of revenue collection. The purchase habits and techniques of the customer are cleared to the company and the same can be utilised to determine the strategies to increase the sale earning more profit.The prediction analysis in data mining will help the companies to expand the customer base and productivity as per the customer demands.








